We are making great progress so we're done with revenue now.
And we spent a lot of time and revenue because with most line items in all financial models in all financial
statements the income saving bouncy cash flow etc. all that stuff is driven off of revenue.
Pretty much there are some exceptions.
So we have to revenue line items that we just discussed.
We have the goggles and the maintenance.
So we're going to move on now to discuss how much it costs to make the revenue and that's called the
cost of goods sold and we're going to focus on all other expenses in the company after this party is
done so after we talk about costs it's all then we'll talk about salaries and tons of other expenses
tons of them.
OK so let me scroll back up here for Coskata salt now.
I explain what gross margin is in a second and it's one of the formulas that we have to calculate which
will automatically be placed on our homescreen as well as on our report.
And there is I think there's four or five formulas we're going to use.
So cascode sold is the cost of making both products now.
If you only have one revenue line item and your model is more simplistic.
It should be for most people taking the course when you started a company usually only have one revenue
line item.
But I've included two here just to make it a little bit more advance in case some people have to read
the linages product and outsource and so let's first of all talk about cascode sold for the goggles
and if you double click this here you see that it just pulls in the revenue line item 1.
So cogs are costs get sold for B 13 and B 13 is VR goggles.
So again we're only talking about the cost to make the goggles right now so recall that in the previous
lecture we talked about the number of units that we sold and the price.
So we're going to pull that data down here when we calculate costs get sold.
Now if you just have a simple financial model and you don't have to multiply units times the cost to
make the product then just hard code right here meaning type over top.
But I've got another formula here just to make it a little bit more advanced.
Some people want to model this with and so the cost of goods sold.
The cost of goods sold for January 2019 for the goggles is a multiplication of how much it costs us
to manufacture one item times the number of units that we sold.
So if we scroll up here we can see that we're pulling in the number of units sold up here.
So in order to calculate the cost of goods sold for the goggles all I'm going to do is I'm going to
answer right here.
The cost to manufacture one to and automatically appear the caskets will be created which is going to
be the cost to manufacture the goggles times the number of units.
See 19 again.
So we know that it costs us or we sold the units for nine bucks each for the whole first year and a
lot of companies that just start out end up losing money for the first year or two sometimes longer.
I don't assume we're losing money on every single one of these we make just for the first year.
So let's assume for the first year and this is normal for a lot of startups.
So for the first year let's just assume that it's going to cost me ups.
I want to take that I want to go down here sorry.
I want to.
It's going to cost me 120 bucks to manufacture one.
So when I hit enter or washer happens up here OK since we're making 100 units and we're we're selling
a hundred units in the first month and I'll go up here and show you where I got the data from 100 units.
And it costs us 9am we saw these weren't frightened by it but we made a hundred units and sold a hundred
units.
I should say in January of 2013.
And and what we did was it actually cost us a hundred twenty bucks to make each unit.
So the cost of goods sold for January of 2008 tene for the goggles is $12000.
The revenue for the goggles for that month is $9900.
So we're losing money.
We're losing money.
We're losing a lot of money that month.
And what I want to show you before I build out the rest of this line item is something called gross
margin and gross margin percent and so I want to explain this here in a little bit more more detail
so we can look at the gross margin for the goggles only and don't get intimidated by models.
Just think of everything as one line as a matter of time it's a lot of fun this way.
It's like a little puzzle.
And so the gross margin is basically a calculation of the revenue minus the cost to make that stuff
divided by the revenue and higher is better.
And so in this example here our gross margins are negative 21 percent because revenue minus that divided
by revenue equals a negative number and so gross margin the higher the better the lower the worse obviously.
And I actually made a little chart I want to show you over here.
I included it in a couple of places in this presentation to some documents but I'm going to scroll over
here and you can ignore the stuff here is just this is where I calculated all the items where I pulled
it forward somewhere else.
Look if you want your call you can.
So if I were to scroll down here I want to show you this little chart.
And I put it all the way to the right of your sorry your gross margins case over over here so you can
always come here a little cheat sheet for the.
And so there's five items that we're going to look at when it comes to is one more below that.
When it when it comes to profitability.
OK.
So basically these ratios are going to show you will tell you how profitable is your company for every
$1 of stuff they sell.
So the gross margin is how much revenue you have minus the cost to make that product divided by revenue.
Okay that's a higher level margin perspective not as important as the next couple of line items.
After this and I'm going to only mention just briefly I'll come back to this later.
But we're going to look at the operating margin which basically means how much what percent return we're
getting on running our company including almost all expenses and I'll make more sense.
And net profit margins the bottom line net income divided by revenue and then below that we have two
other things which are a little bit more advance.
And I can almost assure you that most people that read your business plan won't care about these line
items because your business models very young and we don't tend to look at the balance sheet cash flow
statement that much.
When you started a company it's more income statement but I'll mention it quickly so this is return
on assets which comes from your income statement and your balance sheet.
I'll explain that more later.
Which basically means how much money are we making for one dollar in assets we have and then return
equity is how much money are we making for every dollar an equity have.
And so here.
Think of it that way.
For every dollar in revenue how much operating profit are regenerating or for every dollar in revenue
here.
Also how much income are regenerating.
And it's all in present terms and this will make much more sense later.
But I wanna explain that you put that on your radar screen so to speak right now because if you scroll
down on the home page here you'll see it the data is being updated for you here.
So we've got revenue we already understand revenue here ignore net income for now because we haven't
insured all expenses yet but we've got revenue here and then we're going to have gross margin update
here.
Now I want you to ignore what gross margin you see here because that's for the whole year and we've
only done expenses for one month.
Okay let's go back.
Okay.
So we've only done one month for one product for the cost of goods sold so I'm going to assume that
for the entire first year every month it's going to cost us 120 bucks to make each one of these units.
So we're obviously losing money because we're selling it for 9 bucks.
And then let's have some fun here and this is obviously all hypothetical.
But in year two let's just see what we're selling prices here.
We're selling it for 94 bucks each month.
It was Nine-Nine last year.
And year to year.
Ninety four bucks.
And I'm going to make our costs get sold come down a lot.
Let's just say that for some reason we got really efficient at making these things.
Maybe we we were we placed that big big order for lothsome and because the law of large numbers and
economies of scale is cheaper for us to make these I'm going to say that it's now 80 bucks to make one
obviously very hypothetical copy and I'll assume that's what it costs for the first year to make the
cut for the second year.
All right.
Reichlich special.
This is fun.
OK.
And then let's say that it costs us only 50 bucks.
To make one item and add a copy this year pay special
and then for this year we just have followed us Sumate cost us 20 bucks to make one.
The reason I'm showing these extreme declines here is I want to explain margin expansion to meaning
your profitability percent going up a lot and we'll look at those ratios couple those ratios and analyze
them.
Lady Tilson based on what I'm doing now
and just for fun let's assume it only costs us 10 bucks to make each pair of goggles by this year and
I mean Google makes those cardboard VR goggles so I'm sure those don't cost very much to make of our
hypothetical obviously.
OK.
And this is the last year will do.
And then the quarterly stuff 2023 and beyond mostly the empty side.
We could build it out but I want to.
It'll take me forever to explain it.
Great.
Okay good.
Now let's go back and I want to close all these.
So we're going to look at stuff on an annual basis and we can see here at some of the annual Stouffer's
is his fund so and it's growing here.
So the cost to manufacture these items has gone down a lot.
OK.
It's pretty cool.
It's amazing.
And the spark lines that spark lines for annual spark lines for Coralee you can't see because I get
all this stuff.
But if you open up here you'll be able to see the spark lines for the Coralee stuff as well.
And the yearly stuff when you open these up and please make sure that you open all of these by hitting
to open everything and hit it open everything this way.
Because later on if you don't then some of your charts will not update properly because Excel can't
really see hidden stuff all the time.
A little bit of a off topic there sorry but OK great.
So we're now done with the cost of goods sold for the goggles.
We have one more thing we want to do now here for you for maintenance.
Ok for the Costco It's all then I shall show you one more quick little thing here before we go there.
So let's check out how our gross margin for the goggles changes.
OK.
So watch what happens.
It's negative gross margins here.
Right we're losing money we make them.
And then by January 2019 had taken speaking we're actually making money on them.
Right because it costs us 80 bucks to make one.
If you scroll up we sold each for like ninety four dollars and 10 cents.
And that means that if you take ninety four dollars and 10 cents minus the cost to make it which is
80 bucks divided by ninety four dollars and ten cents that equals 15 percent so our gross margins are
now positive at 15 percent.
Watch this leverage just rocks.
This is doper's as people would say then you'll see here gross margins went negative but for only three
months what is going on there for months.
Why is that negative.
Well before I showed you E.T. and making too much inventory and whatever.
So this was disastrous because what happened in these four months.
I think the thing is we had a lot of returns maybe there was a defect in the product.
So I don't remember that but for the previous lectures I had here.
These are the units that were returned see returned we had returns for four months so we had 100 units
that were returned each month.
In these four months here and let's see how many units we actually made
here.
So of the 330 units in May of 9900 were returned 100 hundred hundred.
So for example here although we sold 319 is August 19 we got returns for 100.
So only 290 people kept units.
The others return it for whatever reason and that is a disaster.
OK.
So but it's okay though because those are only four months and we fixed the production and addressed
that issue and now we go to September 2013 there is no returns.
We're back 15 percent margins.
Okay good gross margins Let's keep going.
So for the whole year 719 you see our margins are 6 percent that's gross margins for just the goggles.
If we go back to 2008 for the whole year they were negative 21 percent because we lost my audience but
we wanted to get 15 percent gross margin for the entire year for the second year here but we didn't
get it because we had negative gross margin because the returns for four months there had 6 percent.
This is where leverage kicks in.
This is where it gets exciting.
Now in January 2020 our gross margins are 37 percent because it only costs us 50 bucks to manufacture
the goggles.
But wait there's more.
It gets better because watch this the year after that.
Our margins are 71 percent which is amazing.
Because only cost is 20 bucks to make each one.
And even though the price for selling all those four came down a bunch.
I'll show you here.
We're incredibly profitable because the cost to make it went down a lot as well so we're selling them
for 69 bucks them in this month and this year.
But it's only costing us 20 bucks to make each one so the gross margin goes through the roof.
It's amazing.
It's awesome.
OK.
So 71 percent gross margins.
And in the software industry for example your gross margins can be well over 95 percent because distribution
of software costs you nothing.
People just download over the Internet or they they buy it on CDs or whatever.
Actually they don't do that anymore.
That just dated me there.
Sorry we site mentioned floppy disk.
All right.
So gross margins now for the next year because I'm in Iraq so I stop.
81 percent gross margins for that one product.
Good okay.
And then I didn't do the quarterly stuff here or the annual stuff later.
OK.
And you'll notice here that you see how it gets wider.
It's because we have all these these ungrouped look at and you can always flag something if you want
as I explained before in this I let them go back though.
OK.
So what we're now done with the cost of goods sold for that one product.
Now we're into the cost of goods sold for the other item.
So the cost to look at the costs gets sold now for maintenance.
Okay.
And there's no formula here but this a lot of times what happens if if if you sell a product and then
you charge 20 percent maintenance per year.
That's pretty normal and the margin structure on maintenance is usually pretty high and it can be technical
supports or whatever it is or free downloads of patches whatever.
If it's if it's a tech products.
Or you can make this just a services line item to a consulting So you sell a product and you have consulting
so we're going to merge.
We're going to have to line items here one is if you want you can think of this as a billable consulting
hours or just mean.
So let me just keep it simple though.
So recall that maintenance for us.
I want to show you how we calculate this so maintenance was basically 20 percent of the product and
that's that's kind of normal for a lot of industries.
So we charge our customers 20 percent of what they paid every single year for product maintenance.
All hypothetical of course and let's assume that the maintenance is basically just software downloads
updates for them.
And you think of this subscription if you want to whatever.
And what you want to do is I'm going to make the cost of goods sold for maintenance and you'll see it
this is just pulled directly from up there.
The word maintenance is here.
So if you enter a different line item it'll be pulled here.
And I also had that it filled in here automatically for whatever my name it's called.
So let's assume that it only cost us 5 percent for the cost.
It's for me.
So I going to go equals
our maintenance item here times zero point zero five five percent.
That's a wonderful margin structure.
Ninety five percent gross margins here you see that and recall all of that.
Is is Miss club it seems a bit more and you could follow this logic here if you want as well.
All this is is the revenue from maintenance minus the cost of providing that maintenance or whatever
item line item this is divided by the revenue for maintenance.
Look here.
And please don't memorize this stuff.
Understand if you understand it you'll never forget it and it's much more fun to.
So we've got that margin profile here.
Ninety five percent is amazing.
So I think going fast forward bowed down is going to make this 5 percent of maintenance every single
month for the next five years so fast forward to.
Okay great.
So we kept the gross margin for maintenance at 95 percent for all five years
and we can now look at the blended or total gross margins for both Lance.
So here's that right here.
Here's the total cost console for both line items.
Okay.
And I put it in English terms up here if you care so.
Total cost goods sold is the cost revenue line item one plus the cost or of Coskata off it and line
item to right here.
And recall you can always go right here and go to every single line item which is pretty powerful.
So if I hear me just go to that its like no.
So if I were to go here you could scroll down to financials look at all this stuff.
So amazing.
So a lot of these guys we haven't talked about yet but we'll get their ICCA great.
So if I went here watch this total financials and put total cogs is that line item there.
And this is just financial input cogs for reading to line item 1 plus cogs for line item 2 and you can
double click and get it color coded if you care you can go up here at whatever 60 percent of what Okay
great down here sorry.
Yes you see that the blue line that plus the red line color coded recall is great.
And the blended gross margin this is gross margins for both products.
So the math of this is just total revenue minus told old that total revenue thats total cost get sold
and total revenue is up there.
Its color coded as well and you can zoom out if you want as well.
I don't have the best I say anymore I apologize but you can do that if you want to be able to see the
blended mathematics from a higher level perspective in your model.
So the total gross margin were negative for the first year so we're actually losing money on making
the product and we haven't even accounted for for salaries and R&D and other expenses which we'll do
in the next election.
But you can see our total gross margins was negative 1 percent and then it started getting more positive.
And I'm going to close all this just to show you the annual numbers so we can see the force and the
trees Okay.
So and again ignore the spark lines here because and this one too because it's just the change over
year and because we close all these these boxes here.
These these were relying on annual basis now.
They'll.
This or it change that's why you will see it there it's fine actually.
So we got an 81 percent here for 2013 the next year 20 percent gross margins 47 76 85.
Investment bankers love to see that.
And if this happens to your company and your company makers will be begging you to go public do an IPO.
That's why we have the exit strategy in our business.
All right.
And so here we have the total cost of goods sold.
And then the year over year change.
So we're now we're now done with the cost of goods sold and so in the next lecture what I'll do is we're
going to continue now and talk about the other things that come into expenses when you're creating financial
statements so we already cover the costs of goods sold.
Now we're look at the cost for everything else which is going to be in one simple line item called S.
DNA that sells general administrative things.